docs: tw568-arbitrum-chain-feature-config-structure (#2802)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: docs/launch-arbitrum-chain/features/advanced/choose-chain-precompiles.mdx

Customization allows developers to add new methods, events, gas logic, or state interactions tailored to the chain's needs, such as app-specific utilities or optimizations. This flexibility is an advanced feature requiring modifications to the Nitro software stack, enabling deeper chain personalization beyond defaults like custom gas tokens or DA modes.

## Key Concepts

- **Precompiles in Arbitrum**: These are predefined contracts at fixed addresses that handle operations more efficiently than regular EVM code. Standard ones include ArbSys (for L1 interactions), ArbInfo (for balances and codes), and others for aggregation, retryables, or gas estimation. Customization builds on this by altering their behavior or adding new ones in the Nitro Go implementation.

> - **Customization Scope**: Focuses on extending functionality without full EVM changes, such as adding utility methods (e.g., a greeting function) or integrating chain-specific state (e.g., a stored number). It doesn't alter core EVM opcodes but enhances system access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Customization Scope**: Focuses on extending functionality without full EVM changes, such as adding utility methods (e.g., a local zk-proof function) or integrating chain-specific state (e.g., a stored bytes). It doesn't alter core EVM opcodes but enhances system access.
```
greeting function is just a very simple education example, maybe here we can give a production example like local zk-proof function.

## Compatibility with Chain Types

- Works with all Orbit DA modes (Rollup, AnyTrust, Alt-DA) and gas tokens (native ETH or custom), as it's a Nitro-level change.
- Compatible with BoLD or permissioned validation, but custom precompiles may require `eth_call` for view methods to avoid breaking block validation.

## Pros

- Enables highly tailored functionality (e.g., custom events for better logging, state for app-specific data).
- Optimizes performance and gas (e.g., cheaper queries).
- Enhances chain utility for specialized use cases like DeFi or gaming.

## Cons

- Requires deep expertise in Go, Solidity, and Nitro; complex setup and maintenance.
- Risks include DoS vulnerabilities without proper gas implementation, security issues without audits, and potential validation breaks.
- No official review from Offchain Labs; changes may complicate upgrades or fraud proofs.

## Examples

- Adding a "sayHi" method to ArbSys that returns "hi" and emits a "Hi" event.
- Creating a new ArbHi precompile with a gas-optimized balance query.
- Storing and modifying a custom state variable like "myNumber" via a new method.

> 

Reviewer: Those examples above are for eduction, I would like to add a production example here as well:
- Add a zk proof function here so chains can process zk related work more efficiency than evm based.

## How to configure

Customizing requires building a modified Nitro node, as precompiles are part of the core software:

1. **Clone and Setup Nitro**: Use branch v3.7.2 or later (`git clone --branch v3.7.2 https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro.git`), then initialize submodules.
2. **Edit Go Files**: Modify `/precompiles` directory (e.g., add methods to ArbSys.go), register new precompiles in precompile.go, and for state changes, update arbosstate.go with variables, offsets, and initialization.
3. **Update Solidity Interfaces**: Add corresponding methods/events to .sol files in the precompiles interface directory for dApp compatibility.

> 4. **Build and Run Node**: Compile a custom Docker image and run the node with your configurations (e.g., specifying parent chain URL and chain ID). Test with tools like curl for eth_call or Foundry's cast for calls/sends.

Author: Adding direction under Step 3, before building.
